+++
date = "2016-12-12"
tags = ["release"]
title = "Paraunit 0.7: test coverage in parallel"

+++

Finally, [Paraunit 0.7](https://github.com/facile-it/paraunit/releases/tag/0.7) has been released! 
This version includes the long awaited **coverage feature**: now you can collect your test coverage running your tests 
in parallel!
 
Along with this new huge feature, here comes a lot of new fixes and changes: for example, now a lot of default PHPUnit
options can be used and they will be passed along to the single PHPUnit processes that Paraunit spawns; also, now we 
**officially support Windows**, and we added an [Appveyor CI build](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/Jean85/paraunit) to 
do that. 

In the meantime, the [1.0 milestone](https://github.com/facile-it/paraunit/milestone/4) has been defined: it will drop 
support to PHPUnit 4.x series, since its support is going to end by Feb. 27th, 2017; with that, also PHP < 5.6 will lose
support, and Paraunit will follow along. I will be able to drop a lot of BC-tricks in this way, preferring `::class` 
and array short syntax everywhere in the codebase.

Here's the full 0.7 changelog:

### Changed

* Paraunit is now capable of producing the test coverage of your test suites in parallel! To use it, use the new 
 `coverage` command (instead of the normal `run`), along with at least an option to specify the requested format; for
 more information, please use the `--help` option on the CLI or refer to the [documentation](https://engineering.facile.it/paraunit/documentation/).
* It's possible to choose how many concurrent processes Paraunit should spawn using the new `--parallel` option.
* A lot of new options are now supported by Paraunit, and carried over to the single PHPUnit processes. The full list of
 new supported options is:
  * `filter`
  * `group`
  * `exclude-group`
  * `test-suffix`
  * `report-useless-tests`
  * `strict-global-state`
  * `disallow-test-output`
  * `enforce-time-limit`
  * `disallow-todo-tests`
  * `process-isolation`
  * `no-globals-backup`
  * `static-backup`
  * `loader`
  * `repeat`
  * `printer`
  * `bootstrap`
  * `no-configuration`
  * `include-path`
  
 `testsuite` and `configuration` options are still supported; thanks to @sergeyz for suggesting the feature (#56)
* Added support to Windows (thanks to R.D. for the help) and Appveyor CI build
* PHP 7.1 added to the Travis build matrix
* Log (and coverage) temp files are deleted right after being read, to reduce memory consumption (#63)

### Fixed

* Symfony 2.3 compatibility restored: the Travis build now tests with `--prefer-lowest` under PHP 5.3; this added 
  `symfony/http-kernel` to the required packages
* Fixed a minor typo that caused version number to be different in the command help versus the command cli "header"
